Title: 
    The Beginner's Guide to SEO
  
Content: Your all-in-one suite of SEO essentials. Raise your local SEO visibility with complete local SEO management. SERP tracking and analytics for enterprise SEO experts. Power your SEO with our index of over 44 trillion links. See which Moz SEO solution best meets your business needs. Power your SEO strategy & AI models with custom data solutions. Get top competitive SEO metrics like DA, top pages and more. Find traffic-driving keywords with our 1.25 billion+ keyword index. Explore over 40 trillion links for powerful backlink data. Uncover valuable insights on your organic search competitors. See top SEO metrics for free as you browse the web. Explore all the free SEO tools Moz has to offer. The #1 most popular introduction to SEO, trusted by millions. Broaden your knowledge with SEO resources for all skill levels.  Learn modern SEO best practices from industry experts. Step-by-step guides to search success from the authority on SEO. Upskill and get certified with on-demand courses & certifications. Insights & discussions from an SEO community of 500,000+. Uncover insights to make smarter marketing decisions in less time. Earn & keep valuable clients with unparalleled data & insights. Gain a competitive edge in the ever-changing world of search. Moz was the first & remains the most trusted SEO company. Explore how Moz drives ROI with a proven track record of success. Get the scoop on the latest and greatest from Moz. You'll get the most out of this guide if your desire to learn search engine optimization (SEO) is exceeded only by your willingness to execute and test concepts. This guide is designed to describe all major aspects of SEO, from finding the terms and phrases (keywords) that can generate qualified traffic to your website, to making your site friendly to search engines, to building links and marketing the unique value of your site. The world of search engine optimization is complex and ever-changing, but you can easily understand the basics, and even a small amount of SEO knowledge can make a big difference. Free SEO education is also widely available on the web, including in guides like this! (Woohoo!) Combine this information with some practice and you are well on your way to becoming a savvy SEO. Ever heard of Maslow's hierarchy of needs? It's a theory of psychology that prioritizes the most fundamental human needs (like air, water, and physical safety) over more advanced needs (like esteem and social belonging). The theory is that you can't achieve the needs at the top without ensuring the more fundamental needs are met first. Love doesn't matter if you don't have food. Our founder, Rand Fishkin, made a similar pyramid to explain the way folks should go about SEO, and we've affectionately dubbed it "Mozlow's hierarchy of SEO needs." Here's what it looks like: As you can see, the foundation of good SEO begins with ensuring crawl accessibility, and moves up from there. Using this beginner's guide, we can follow these seven steps to successful SEO: We'll spend time on each of these areas throughout this guide, but we wanted to introduce it here because it offers a look at how we structured the guide as a whole.Explore the chapters: Speed up to catch up Go from zero to hero with our step-by-step refresh on the core fundamentals for setting your site up for SEO success. What is it, and why is it important? For true beginners. Learn what search engine optimization is, why it matters, and all the need-to-know basics to start yourself off right. Download your free Quick Start Worksheet. First, you need to show up. If search engines literally can't find you, none of the rest of your work matters. This chapter shows you how their robots crawl the Internet to find your site and add it to their indexes. Understand what your audience wants to find. Our approach targets users first because that's what search engines reward. This chapter covers keyword research and other methods to determine what your audience is seeking. Use your research to craft your message. This is a hefty chapter, covering optimized design, user experience, information architecture, and all the ways you can adjust how you publish content to maximize its visibility and resonance with your audience. Basic technical knowledge will help you optimize your site for search engines and establish credibility with developers. By implementing responsive design, robot directives, and other technical elements like structured data and meta tags, you can tell Google (a robot itself) what your site is all about. This helps it rank for the right things. Turn up the volume. Once you've got everything in place, it's time to expand your influence by earning attention and links from other sites and influencers. Set yourself up for success.  An essential part of SEO is knowing what's working (and what isn't), adjusting your approach as you go along. Understand key terms and phrases. Learning SEO can sometimes feel like learning another language, with all the jargon and industry terms you're expected to know. This chapter-by-chapter glossary will help you get a handle on all the new words. If you're serious about improving search traffic we do recommend reading the Beginner's Guide to SEO front-to-back. We've tried to make it as concise and easy to understand as possible, and learning the basics of SEO is a vital first step in achieving your online business goals. Go through at the pace that suits you best, and be sure to take note of the dozens of resources we link to throughout the chapters — they're also worthy of your attention.  If you want to take a more guided approach to learning SEO or training your entire team, check out the Moz Academy SEO Essentials Certification. We've consolidated all the resources you need to learn SEO fundamentals alongside unique learning methods, task lessons and quizzes to test your knowledge. You can also display your knowledge with your Linkedin Moz SEO Essentials certification badge. Getting excited yet? You should be! Without further ado, let's launch into Chapter 0: Quick Start Guide.

Title: SEO Basics: Beginner’s Guide to SEO Success
Content: The number of websites linking to this post. This post's estimated monthly organic search traffic. SEO Book for Beginners We turned the seven chapters of our beginner’s guide to SEO into a beautiful hardcover book. Keep reading to learn what SEO is, how to set things up for success, and how to get indexed.  Search engine optimization (SEO) is the process of growing a website’s organic search traffic. It’s where you do things that help you show up and rank higher in a search engine’s organic results. People are likely searching for what you do, and you can attract customers by ranking for those terms. But you’re unlikely to rank without effort, as others are trying to do the same. This is why SEO matters. It helps show Google that you most deserve to rank. Most people click one of the first few search results, so higher rankings usually lead to more traffic. Unlike other channels, search traffic tends to be consistent and passive. That’s because the number of searches is usually quite consistent month to month. Search traffic is also “free.” That’s a big deal because ads can be expensive.  For example, we get an estimated 1.4M monthly visits from organic search. It would cost us an estimated $1.7M per month to get that same traffic from search ads. SEO involves five main steps:  These steps are the main focus of our beginner’s guide to SEO. Doing SEO is much easier when your website is properly set up for SEO success. Let’s look at a few ways to do that. Most domains are fine for SEO, so don’t panic if you already have one. But if you’re still shopping around, keep these two elements of a good domain in mind. Something short and memorable is best here. Don’t try to shoehorn keywords. Your business name without hyphens or special characters is usually a good bet. This is the part after the name, like .com. Your choice of TLD makes no difference for SEO.[1]  But we think .com is best for most people, as it’s the most recognizable and trusted. For charities, .org or your local equivalent also works. If you only do business in one country outside the U.S., your country code top-level domain (ccTLD), like .co.uk, is fine too.  It’s best to stay clear of TLDs like .info and .biz that people tend to associate with spam. But it’s not the end of the world if you have one. You can still build a legit website that ranks. Website platforms let you create and manage a website with ease. There are two types: Most SEOs recommend a self-hosted, open-source platform like WordPress because: That said, if you value ease of use and support, a hosted solution might be a better fit. All the big ones provide enough SEO capabilities for most people. If you’re using a hosted solution, you’ll need a web host. These store your site on a hard drive that anyone with an internet connection can access. Consider the three S’s when choosing one: You can optimize server location with a content distribution network (CDN). This creates copies of your site on servers around the world so it’s always served from close to the user. So don’t fret about this too much. If you find that speed is an issue, you can invest in a CDN later on. Google wants to rank pages that give visitors a positive experience.[2] Let’s look at a few ways to do this.  Nothing is worse for visitors than their personal data being susceptible to hackers. Always encrypt your site with SSL/TLS. Nobody wants to visit a website that looks like it’s from the ’90s. So while there’s no need to redesign your website every few months, it should look good and reflect your brand. More searches are now done on mobile than desktop.[3] So it’s critical that your website is as pleasant to use on mobile as on desktop. People browse the web using all kinds of devices. Make sure your content is readable across the board. Everyone hates ads, but sometimes you need them. If that’s the case, avoid intrusive interstitials. Pages with these may not rank as highly.[4] Page speed is a ranking factor on desktop and mobile. But this doesn’t mean your site needs to load lightning fast. It only affects pages that deliver the slowest experience to users.[5][6] It should be easy for visitors and search engines to find content on your site. That’s why it’s important to create a logical hierarchy for your content. You can do this by sketching a mind map. Each branch on the map becomes an internal link, which is a link from one page on a website to another.  Internal links are crucial for UX and SEO for a few reasons: URLs are important, as they help searchers understand the content and context of a page. Many website platforms let you choose how to structure your URLs. These are the five main options for URLs in WordPress: If you’re setting up a new site, go with the clearest and most descriptive structure. That’s post name. If you’re working with an existing website, it’s rarely a good idea to change the URL structure; it may break things. Most website platforms handle basic SEO functionality out of the box. But if you’re using WordPress, install an SEO plugin. It’s hard to put even basic SEO best practices in place without one. Both Yoast and Rank Math are good options. Having a website set up for SEO success will help Google crawl and index your pages. But submitting your site to Google can speed up this process further. That’s because this helps Google find your website even if it has no backlinks.  Sitemaps list the important pages on your website that you want search engines to index. If you already have a sitemap, it’ll likely be at one of these URLs: If you can’t find it there, check site.com/robots.txt where it’s usually listed. If you still can’t find it, you likely don’t have one and need to create one. You do this via Google Search Console (GSC). It takes about two seconds. Before we dive into how to do SEO, it’s worth taking a minute to understand how to track and measure SEO performance. This is never easy, and what we’ll cover here is a very high-level overview.  Let’s start with the obvious one. If organic traffic is going up, you’re doing something right. You can track this in GSC for free. If you don’t have access to GSC, sign up for a free Ahrefs Webmaster Tools (AWT) account. Then plug your domain into Site Explorer for an estimate.  If rankings are on the rise for your target keywords, that’s another sign that you’re doing something right. You can track average keyword rankings for free in GSC. If you want more accurate tracking, you’ll need a rank tracking tool like Ahrefs’ Rank Tracker. Organic traffic and keyword rankings are “vanity metrics.” There’s no harm in keeping an eye on them, but they often bear no relationship with marketing or business goals. It’s much better to track metrics that have actual business impact. We cover two of these below. This metric in Ahrefs’ Rank Tracker shows what percentage of all clicks for the tracked keywords land on your website. For example, let’s say you track one keyword, and all the top positions in Google are occupied by pages on your website. Because your website gets all possible traffic from that keyword, your Visibility is 100%. Now let’s say your website only occupies one spot in Google, with the rest occupied by competitors. Because some clicks go to other websites, your Visibility is lower than 100%.  If your Visibility is increasing, this is yet another good sign your SEO is on the right track. Copy link The number of websites linking to this post. This post's estimated monthly organic search traffic. 

